- [Instructor] Okay let us pick up where we left off.
Another thing to note here is
that if you have a lot of problem
understanding the code and the Dao class
or the DB connection class
please feel free to check out any JWC recorded video
on LinkedIn Learning.
Right, so we are in an application Dao
and I've already got the template
of the template of the meta ready.
What is a meta doing?
The name is search products.
It will of course have the search string as a parameter
and it is going to return me a list of products.
And, I'm using the collection and generex feature
of code java together.
I will encapsulate all the information
of the products in a product, bean.
Let's look at that product bean quickly.
I have a bean class, a simple java bean class,
product ID, product image, product image path,
and the respective getters and setters.
So, this is a simple java bean
and I want to encapsulate all the information in a bean
because I want to stick to object oriented concept of Java,
right?
So, let's come to application Dao
and let's get started with this method.
So, the first thing that I want to do is get the connection
from the DB connection class,
so I'm going to quickly take a reference of connection
coming from the Java SQL package
and let's call the DB connection class
and invoke the method of get connection to database.
Once this is done, we need to write out the SQL query
which is going to help us search products.
So, that is going to be select star from products.
That's the table from which we want
to retrieve the information.
And, I'm going to put a where clause.
I'm going to say where product underscore name,
that's the name of the column,
like and you put the pattern,
append the search string to it
and then complete the pattern.
That is how it'll look like.
Right, so you've got the connection.
We are ready with our query.
Up next, we want the statement object.
So, let's take that again coming
from the Java dot SQL package which is this.
Now, let us get the statement object.
So, that will be on the connection object itself.
You will need to invoke an API called create statement.
And, once we do this, we just have to go
and execute that query.
So, for that, I'm going to take the statement reference
and invoke that API of execute query
and pass that query that we've written out
on line number 50.
Right.
Now, once we execute the query,
we are going to get some data from the database
which is in the form of a result set API.
so, I'm going to collect the output of this API call
in the result set reference.
Let's do that.
Once we do this, we have to iterate this result set
because it will be lot of product rules
that are going to be returned out of the query.
So, let's iterate that using a while loop.
I'm going to say while set dot next
and I'm going to do something here.
So, what I'm going to do, each rule of the result set,
I'm going to fill up in a product object.
And, that product object, I'm going to put out in a list.
So, let us have two reference variables here.
I'm going to insert some call on line number 13.
I'm first going to make a product bean reference,
set it to null initially.
And, on line number 14, I'm going
to create a list of products.
Let's just say new array list.
This is, of course, the code Java collection API
that I'm using.
There you go.
Now, let's come to this while loop on line number 25.
Let's go inside and let's instantiate that product object.
And, let's quickly set the data to it.
So, I'm going to say product dot set product ID.
The first one.
And, that is going to come from the result set
in the form of an integer value.
So, I'm going to say set dot get int
and mention the column ID,
which is nothing but product underscore ID.
That's how it looks.
The next thing that you do is
set the rest of the parameters.
So, product dot set product image path, let's say.
And, this going to come as a string.
So, let me get string and mention the name
of the column for the image path.
Similarly, I'll have to do the rest
of this stuff for the product name.
The third one,
the third parameter.
So, that also is coming as a string.
So, I just need to go ahead and mention the name
of the column.
Right.
Now, all of these errors that you see
on the call statements are
because all of these could possibly
throw you an SQL exception.
So, we're going to encapsulate all of this code
inside a try-catch block.
So, I'm going to take lines number 17 to 31,
cut them out, and put them quickly inside a try block.
Once that's done, let's also go ahead
and write out the catch block for this.
So, this is all a part of the exception handling that we do
using the Java standard edition APIs.
I'm just going to say print stack trace
because we are in the development environment.
Right.
Now, once we clear the product object,
we are going to also quickly add it
to that products list that we created.
Let's fill it up in that products list, the bean.
And, once we do this, let's come at the end
which is on line number 40.
And, I'm just going to return that products list.
Right.
So, in totality this method gets a connection,
writes the query to search a product,
creates a statement,
takes all the rules inside a result set,
iterates it, fills every rule into a product object,
adds a product into the products list,
and finally returns that products list
to the calling method.